Dataset: Preprocess BraTs 2020 link "https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/16cpqsyQNjLZ0gVmjfXFKu5gHC2lrjW5v?usp=sharing"
Abstract
Medical images are sensitive, and their use and dissemination are restricted by strict rules and ethical guidelines. Therefore, employing data augmentation to overcome the limitations of labeled medical images is a crucial aspect of artificial intelligence. While it is possible to artificially increase the size of a dataset by applying various techniques to existing images, such as generating a large number of precise synthetic images with generative adversarial networks (GANs), tuning the hyperparameters that determine the performance of these networks can be challenging. This article suggests a novel method involving the metaheuristic optimization technique Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to optimize GAN hyperparameters for data augmentation.
The idea behind this work is to use the collective intelligence of the particle swarm to identify the best GAN hyperparameters for generating high-quality and diverse brain tumor images. We present a novel approach in which the PSO algorithm is implemented with GANs and searches the hyperparameter space for optimal values. The fitness function of PSO finds the optimal hyperparameter for the GAN by utilizing the highest Average Structural Similarity Index measurements (Avg-SSIM) between real and generated images.
By applying the GAN-PSO approach to the brain tumor segmentation dataset (BraTs20), both the quality and variety of brain tumor images are significantly improved. This data augmentation approach creates synthetic images, successfully expanding and enriching the dataset. The GAN-PSO approach not only enhances the visual fidelity of generated images but also improves its performance in the quantitative measures used to evaluate the dissimilarity between real and generated images. 
